-*- mode: LateX; -*-

Theme: democratizing force.  Whenever there was a tech milestone with
the *potential* to further democratize computing, BASIC was right there
with it, co-leading the charge.  BASIC has been in on the ground floor
of (at least) three "computing for everyone" or "democratizing
computing" ecosystems.  The WWW was the first one that *didn't* feature
BASIC prominently.

from \cite{veit}, p.92ff:

Stan Veit reported that when he demonstrated the Apple I at an ACM (New
York chapter) dinner meeting in 1976, his colleagues were
astonished---but the dealers' reaction was please call when BASIC is
available.  (Jobs said Woz was "working hard" on Integer BASIC)

On August 26, 1976, at the first national computer show in Atlantic City,
NJ, Woz was in the hotel room using the hotel room's TV to finish work
on BASIC; it worked on their floor models when the show opened on August
28.  It was the only 6502 computer on a floor full of 8080s.

ibid, p.114, 134:

(Vendors began to realize that BASIC was no longer a differntiator but a
competitive necessity.)  Sphere Computer and Processor Technology
boasted low-cost computers that included BASIC, but the BASIC was
vaporware at the time of introduction.  Processor Technology 
contracted their BASIC out to NorthStar, which also licensed it to
others and ultimately undersold PT with its own computer,
and Sphere's BASIC underperformed when finally
released.  Both companies quickly went under.


From \cite{edn75:6502}:
The 6502's superior performance on the 
AH Systems benchmarks (winning four out of five 
of them over the 8080 and 6800) would, if 
accurate, indicate that his shift in emphasis to 
improved addressing has worked. 


From \cite{byte75:6502}:
Compared to the 6800, the 6502 traded away one general-purpose
accumulator (B) and a 16-bit index register for a single accumulator and
two 8-bit index registers.  For programs that need to reference arrays
based on random offsets (vs. simply walk through them) or do operations
that maintain pointers into two arrays, the  6502 saves on both
instruction count and execution time, sometimes by a factor of 2.

The 6502 has had pop culture appearances in Futurama
(
http://spectrum.ieee.org/semiconductors/processors/the-truth-about-benders-brain
) and The Terminator (screenshot in Wikipedia article on 6502; looks
like it's recognizably from one of the example programs in the Apple
ProDOS Technical Reference Manual!)
